---
layout: post
author: Neha
categories: Assignment Blog page
---

# Assignment-2 , Question-2

## Question
Find the single shell command that helps you create a blank file without any output redirection.
Create a file test using the command.  Write a shell script to give
all possible file permissions to the created file using a loop.  After every change display the result using ‘ ls -l test ’ on the terminal.
Next run the following command on the file test :
sudo chattr +i test
Now rerun you script on test.  Does it work?  You can try out other file operations like mv, rm
. Find out the reason for this behavior.  Write a brief explanation.  What would you do to make it work again?


---


## Answer


```bash
#!/bin/bash
#touch creates a new file called test
touch test


file_name="test"

for(( i = 0; i <= 7; i++ ))
do
        for(( j = 0; j <= 7; j++ ))
        do
                for(( k = 0; k <= 7; k++ ))
                do
                n=$((i*100 + j*10 + k))   #octal values that change the permissions on the file
                echo 0"$i""$j""$k"
                chmod  $n "$file_name"    #command to give the permission.
                echo $(ls -l test)        #displays the permission given to file.
                sleep 1
                done
        done

```

>The single shell command which creates a blank file without any output redirection is:  touch  and the syntax to create it is:
touch filename
sudo chattr +i test
After running this command on the file test, we get:
Operation not permitted for every permission
This makes the file test immutable(unchangeable). chattr (Change Attribute) is a command line Linux utility that is used to set/unset certain attributes to a file in Linux system to secure accidental deletion or modification of important files and folders, even though we are logged in as a root user.
One cannot delete or modify file/folder once attributes are sets with chattr command, even though one has full permissions on it.

Thus, after trying file operations like mv and rm after this command, it again gives
Operation not permitted

>To make it work again, we use the command:
chattr -i test 
This is for resetting(unset attribute) permissions and allows to make a files changeable or alterable using -i flag. This will make it mutable again.


---

